Hi, and welcome back!
In this video we're going to be looking at
our next project.
Which is going to be a similar scraping project,
only using a more complex site,
and our project is going to do a few more things.
The first thing to do is to think of
what we want to scrape,
what we want to get out of the site.
And in this case,
our project is going to do a couple of things.
But, essentially, we're going to scrape
this books website.
And again, the URL is:
books.toscrape.com
The toscrape.com site is a collection of websites
that we can scrape freely,
and that have been designed for scraping.
So they're good things to try out.
And, what we're gonna do in our app
is we're going to go through all the books
they've got in their collection,
and we're going to, sort of,
filter through them, we're gonna see
which ones we can buy based on price,
and the number of views,
and things like that.
Essentially, making a faster
and more efficient way
of navigating the collection
in order to find the books that we want to buy.
So, as you can see,
this is the website here on the left,
and we've got the inspector on the right.
If you want to open the inspector,
you can right-click anywhere and press "Inspect."
And, what's happening here is
that we have 1,000 books in the catalogue
or the collection,
and each book is in this format, as we can see.
We've looked at this before
at the start of the section.
We sort of investigated how to extract data
if we had one of these books only.
We're gonna take it a bit further now
and scrape the entire page.
So we've got all of these books
in this format,
and if we go to the inspector
and we look at the HTML, we can start
by finding out the body of the page.
There we've got a div which contains
everything except the header,
and then there's a page inner
that has essentially all the content
and also adds sort of a bit of
margins around the corners.
You can see that the,
this div here
is slightly bigger than the other one,
so all that's happening there
is we're constraining the content
so that it displays a bit nicer.
Then, we've got the breadcrumbs,
we've got the row here,
and then we have the sidebar,
which has the different topics.
This is something we could scrape if we wanted.
And then we're going into the book collection.
So, in here we have a few things
such as the different results that we've got
and then there's a section,
and in this section we have a div,
and that div is the one that contains a
"ol" class row,
this is an unordered list of the different books
and each book is inside
a list item element.
You can see the visual repeats itself
because each book is inside a list item.
Notice how the books are not formatted
as list items, but nonetheless,
with HTML you can essentially
display anything you want in any element.
So in this case, they're using list items,
maybe they thought that was easier
for development purposes.
Normally, list items would be like bullet points.
Now, inside the list item
is the stuff we already know.
An article, which is the "product_pod"
that we've seen before,
then we've got a div which contains the image,
we've got the star-rating,
the title,
we've got the price in there,
as well as the "add to basket" button.
So, what we're gonna do is,
we're going to, again, create a parser
for the books
that is going to be each list item
is gonna be passed into it,
and each parser is going to
search for the information about that book
within itself.
Okay.
So, it's gonna be essentially
a copy of the last project
with some added functionality,
and of course now that we have prices
we're gonna use the regular expressions module
to get the price out as a number,
and we're also going to be dealing with
getting the star rating out of there
and then doing some sort of sorting and filtering
using that star rating.
Nonetheless, my advice, as usual,
is to, now that we have implemented
the, quote, "scraper,"
try to implement this project on your own!
It's not gonna be easy,
but you already know a lot of the things
that you need in order to tackle this,
and if you structure your project
using the pages and scrapers,
essentially one page for the,
for this entire page
and one scraper for the,
I'm sorry, one parser for the books,
then you should be able to tackle this
pretty nicely.
And you may not be able to
do some of the more advanced things,
but you'll be able to do some things,
so I definitely recommend
you give it a break
before moving on to the next video
and try to implement this on your own.
Okay?
So once you've done that,
let's move on to the next video,
and we'll start implementing it there.
I'll see you there.